零、Abstract 摘要
1.The problem under investigation ,in one sentence if possible .
一句话概括研究问题。
2.The participants ,specifying pertinent characteristics such as age ,sex and ethnic and /or racial group ;in animal research ,specifying genius and species .
说明参与对象，强调其与研究切题的属性，如年龄、性别、种族或人种；若研究对象为动物，应强调种与属。
3.The essential features of study method-you have a limited number of words so restrict your description to essential and interesting features of the study methodology particularly those likely to be used in electronic searches .
用有限且严谨文字描述研究方法关键且让人感兴趣的特点，就像网络文献库的简介一样。
4.The basic findings ,including effect size and confidence intervals and / or statistical significance levels.
基本结果，包括效应大小，置信区间或统计显著水平。
5. The conclusions and the implications or applications.
研究的结论，及其含义及应用。

一 、Introduction 绪论：
Development of the problem under investigation ,including its historical antecedents ,and statement of the purpose of the investigation .
研究问题的进展现状，包括它的历史研究，并阐明研究目的.
1.Why is the problem important ?
问题的重要性。
2.How does the study related to the previous work in the area ?
If other aspects of this study have been reported previously ,how does this report differ from ,and build on ,the earlier report ?
研究与该领域最近哪些工作相关？
如果该研究的其他方面已经在近期被报道过，这份报告与之前的报告的差别在哪？有何拓展？
3.What are the primary and secondary hypotheses and objects the study ,and what ,if any ,are the links to theory ?
说明研究的主要假设和次要假设，及研究目标，与相关理论。
4.How does the hypotheses and research design relate to one another ?
假设与研究的关系：如何依照假设来设计研究，如何通过研究设计来证明假设？
5.What are the theoretical and practical implications of the study?
研究在理论与实践层面有何意义？（研究在理论和实践层面会带来哪些变化？）
（6.Explore importance of the problem 探究问题的重要性。
   7.Describe relevant scholarship .介绍相关研究。
   8.State hypotheses and their correspondence to research design .说明假设与实验设计的一致性。）

二、Method 方法：
Description of the procedures used to conduct the investigation .
对用来进行研究的程序进行说明。
1.State hypotheses and their correspondence to research design .
说明假设与实验设计的一致性。
2.Participant(subjects) characteristics.
参与研究的属性/对象，即variables。
3.Sampling procedures.
取样程序。
4.Sample size ,power ,and precision .
样本的大小，检验效能，和精度。
5.Measures and covariate.
演算法与协变量。
6.Research design .
研究设计。
7.Experimental manipulations or interventions .
研究中的操作和干扰。

三、Results 结果：
Report of the findings and analyses.
报告结果及分析。
1.Recruitment .
补充说明，补充理解实验结果需要的信息。
2.Statistics and data analysis.
统计意义与数据分析，说明数据符合统计模型的意义。
3.Ancillary analyses.
额外分析，如灵敏度检验，显著性分析。
4.Intervention or manipulation fidelity .
实验操作与干预的精确度,说明实验操作或干预的效果，可信度及其意义。
5,.Baseline data.
基准数据，即判断统计学显著性和对假设做出结论所依赖的数据。
6.Statistics and data analysis 
通过统计与数据分析得到结论。

四、Discussion 讨论：
Summary ,interpretation ,and implications of the results .
结果的总结，解释及其意义（含义）。
1.Summary 
总结实验方法结果与得到的结论。
2.Open the discussion section with a clear statement of the support or nosupport for your  original hypotheses,distinguished by primary and secondary hypothesis .
在讨论的开始，首先清楚阐明主要及次要假设被证明或证伪。
3.Examine the result .
检测实验结果的稳定性与可信性。
4.Interpret the results .
解释结果的意义。
5.Qualify the result .
证明的结果的合理性，联系实验结果和现实证明结果的合理。
6.Draw inference from the results .
从实验结果中得到对现实规律的推论。
7.Conclusion from the results .
根据实验结果得到现实结论。
8.Acknowledge the limitations of  your research .
承认并说明实验结果的局限性。
9.Address alternative explanations of the results .
给出实验结果的多角度可选择的解释。
10.Discuss the generalizability ,or extenal validity ,of the findings .
讨论研究发现的普遍性，即研究发现可否应用于其他领域；也可以讨论研究发现的外部效度。
11.End the discussion section with reasoned and justifiable commentary on your findings .
以对实验发现合理且公正的评判结束讨论。
12.Answers to :回答以下问题：
What is the theoretical ,clinical ,or practical significance of outcomes ,and what is the basis for these interpretations?
实验结论在理论上，临床上和实践上有何显著性？解释实验结果的理论基础是什么？
If the findings are valid and replicate ,what real-life psychological phenomena might be explained or modeled by the results ?
若研究发现是有效的且可复制的，有哪些现实生活中的现象可以通过实验结果来解释或建模？
Are applications warranted on the basis of this research ?
以研究为基础，可以实现哪些现实的应用？
13.What problems remain unsolved or arise anew because of these findings ?
研究提出后仍有哪些旧问题仍待解决？又产生了哪些新的问题？
